---
title: Alice's Adventures in Wonderland
author: Lewis Carroll
date: 2025-09-02
---

Who needs to do acid when you can read Alice in Wonderland for free? 

I was inspired to read this book after recalling how I was mistaken for the Cheshire cat by a Tesco employee while cosplaying as Husk from Hazbin Hotel during Manchester comic con last year. 

I recall watching the 2010 movie adaptation quite some time ago. Until today, I wasn't aware that there were any other movie adaptations, though I thought it prudent to check. Going down this aptly-named rabbit hole, I found that some of the differences I noted might be because there is not just one book; there is also *Through the Looking Glass And What Alice Found There*. I also found out about a curious adaptation from 1869, "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland Retold in Words of One Syllable* by Harriet Murray. There are also more movie adaptations than I can count - it seems that the original two books, which are much older than I had expected, have been massively capitalised upon. 

It occurs to me that I've no clue how old Alice is. Influenced by the movie I'd seen, I had imagined her as a young adult throughout, though judging by her being ten inches tall and the perfect size to fit through a fifteen inch tall door, and if the narrator's assessment of heights is to be taken quite seriously, perhaps the age that befits a person around two-thirds of a door tall - but for any age, it seems that she is by no means a sane person in a mad world. Her thoughts and dialogue and general character, really contribute to how intensely insane everything is. 

I wasn't a massive fan of the "and it was all a dream" trope at the end, but I suppose it might have been considered quite original in the 1800s. 